docs: Release Process (#86)
confidential-containers/confidential-containers: Release_Process.md

# Confidential Container Release Process

## Process
- Code Freeze
- Issue created from [Release Check list template](https://github.com/confidential-containers/community/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=release-check-list.md&title=%5BRelease%5D+Check+list+for+v%3CTARGET_RELEASE%3E)
- "[Release Owner](https://github.com/confidential-containers/community/wiki/Release-Team-Rota)" identifies owners for Check List Items
- Check List Items completed
- Release Complete
- Removal of Code Freeze and release announced.

> Release Dates will be set mid week and no one should feel an expectation to work unsocial hours to meet a release date. Communication and expectation setting is important and can be used to involve more people from the community to address any Issues blocking release. From the point of code freeze the release is being built so the release date is an estimate. Releasing early or late along with ideas for improvements/changes for future releases will be reflected on after release.

Reviewer: Minor suggested changes:
```suggestion
Release Dates will be set mid-week, and no one should feel an expectation to work unsocial hours to meet a release date. Communication and expectation setting is important, and can be used to involve more people from the community to address any Issues blocking release. From the point of code freeze, the release is being built so the release date is an estimate. Releasing early or late along with ideas for improvements/changes for future releases will be reflected on after release.
```

## Requirements to help with Release Process
- Availability during the release period to complete Tasks 

> - **TODO** What access is needed/suggested?

Reviewer: I think this will be critical to the enabling individuals without needing to micro-manage a bunch of different repositories. Do we have a list of permissions required, yet?

Author: :-) Not yet waiting for input here, @fitzthum mentioned about creating a group and we can ensure that has the permissions, then we could document the need to be added to that group?

Reviewer 2: The process is that we now have an organization-wide team called `release-champions`. Anyone who is in this team will elevated privileges on all repos that are involved in a release (thanks to that team having the custom Release role for each of these repos). So from a process standpoint once we have identified the people helping with a release, we should add them to this team. We should also make sure that we remove anyone who is not working on the current release to minimize any permissions issues.

Author: Thanks, I will also highlight the need to ensure people are added/removed to the responsibilities of the "release Owner"

Reviewer 2: Yeah since being in that group gives people superpowers we probably don't want to have anyone on the team when we aren't in the freeze window.

- GitHub permissions to push tags and create releases in CoCo repositories

## Expectations on Release Owners

> The release owner is not expected to complete the Release Check List alone and the majority of tasks on the check list can be delegated. Delegation will help others become confident assisting with the release and share the burden but does rely on community members volountering.

Reviewer: Minor suggested changes:
```suggestion
The release owner is not expected to complete the Release Check List alone and the majority of tasks on the check list can be delegated. Delegation will help others become confident in assisting with the release and share the burden, but does rely on community members volunteering.
```

> The key responsibility which can not be delegated is communication and oversight

Reviewer: Would it make sense to create a general Slack channel to help coordinate and oversee the release process?

Author: I like that idea, Do we feel people would add themselves to the channel? and it would be used. not sure what others involved in the release process previously feel.
I think I'd like to try it and we can document the channel name.
We can always link across to a thread in it from general confidential containers channel if problems need fixed by the wider community , rather than threads on progressing through the steps etc.

Reviewer 2: In the past we have used threads in the CNCF and Kata workspaces.

Author: Added reference to threads

- communicate and ensure code freeze with repository maintainers
- ensure the checklist is completed
- ensure the checklist is updated to reflect any new checklist items
- report status to the community
- announce the new release and end of code freeze.

> ## Expectations on Community

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Code Freeze - Expectations from the Community
```

> - During the Code Freeze period no code should be merged.

Reviewer 2: Some changes are appropriate during the freeze period such as updating dependencies (by the release team). We might want to mention this. Maybe it would be good to have a short list of exemptions including documentation.

Author: Added a bit of clarification here

> - The Pipeline (all git Hub Actions, Jenkins jobs, Jenkins Job Builder definitions etc) is considered code and also frozen for change

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Pipeline (all Github Actions, Jenkins jobs, Jenkins Job Builder definitions, etc.) is considered code and should also be frozen from changes
```

- GitHub permissions to push tags and create releases in CoCo repositories

## Expectations on Release Owners
The release owner is not expected to complete the Release Check List alone and the majority of tasks on the check list can be delegated. Delegation will help others become confident in assisting with the release and share the burden, but does rely on community members volunteering.

The key responsibility which can not be delegated is communication and oversight
- communicate and ensure code freeze with repository maintainers (currently threads in the CNCF and Kata workspaces are used for communication)
- ensure the checklist is completed
- ensure the checklist is updated to reflect any new checklist items
- report status to the community
- announce the new release and end of code freeze.
- remove those not currently helping with the release from the release-champions team 
- ensure those helping with the release are part of the release-champions team

## Code Freeze - Expectations from the Community
- During the Code Freeze period no code should be merged without release owner approval. Exceptions can include
  - Documentation updates
  - Release Notes

>   - Bug fixes

Reviewer 3: I think bug fixes need to be communicated too.
```suggestion
```

- The Pipeline (all Github Actions, Jenkins jobs, Jenkins Job Builder definitions, etc.) is considered code and should also be frozen from changes
- If the release process identifes an issue then community is expected to help resolve the issue and deliver a fix
- The release owner would be involved in reviewing the fix and approving a merge (in addition to repository maintainers)

## Useful Links
- [Template for Release checklist](https://github.com/confidential-containers/community/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=release-check-list.md&title=%5BRelease%5D+Check+list+for+v%3CTARGET_RELEASE%3E)

> - [Release Owners](https://github.com/confidential-containers/community/wiki/Release-Team-Rota)

Reviewer 3: Update link. However it doesn't look like we are using this so also consider removing the file from the repo and the link from this doc.
```suggestion
- [Release Owners](https://github.com/confidential-containers/confidential-containers/wiki/Release-Team-Rota)
```
